#summary a lightweight library for indexing and parsing PRIDE XML files.
#sidebar TableOfContents
 * [#About_PRIDE_XML_JAXB About PRIDE XML JAXB]
 * [#Getting_PRIDE_XML_JAXB Getting PRIDE XML JAXB]
 * [#Using_PRIDE_XML_JAXB Using PRIDE XML JAXB]
 * [#API_Reference API Reference]
 * [#FAQs FAQs]
 * [#Getting_Help Getting Help]
 * [#Source_Code Source Code]

== About PRIDE XML JAXB ==
PRIDE XML JAXB library is a library for indexing and parsing [http://www.ebi.ac.uk/pride/schemaXmlspyDocumentation.do PRIDE XML 2.1] files. This library *does not* load the whole file into the memory upfront, instead it employs XML indexing technique to index the file on the fly which gives fast accessing and small meomory footprint. Additionaly, all entitites in PRIDE XML file are mapped as objects, and the internal reference between the objects are resolved automatically, this gives you direct access in the object model to entities that are only referenced by ID in the actual XML file.  

PRIDE XML JAXB library is written in Java, brought to you by the PRIDE team. 

This library uses the following two external libraries: 
 * [XXIndex XXIndex]: Indexing XML files.
 * [https://jaxb.dev.java.net/ JAXB]: Parsing XML snippets into object model.

If you want to see PRIDE XML JAXB library in action, you can try out [http://code.google.com/p/pride-toolsuite/w/edit/PRIDEInspector PRIDE Inspector].

[PRIDEXMLJAXB top of page]
----
== Getting PRIDE XML JAXB ==
The zip file in the [http://code.google.com/p/pride-toolsuite/downloads/list downloads section] contains the *PRIDE XML JAXB* jar file and all other required libraries.

===Maven Dependency===
*PRIDE XML JAXB* library can be used in Maven projects, you can include the following snippets in your Maven pom file. 
{{{
 <dependency>
   <groupId>uk.ac.ebi.pride.jaxb</groupId>
   <artifactId>pride-jaxb</artifactId>
   <version>1.0.4</version>
 </dependency> 
}}}

{{{
 <repository>
   <id>ebi-repo</id>
   <name>The EBI internal repository</name>
   <url>http://www.ebi.ac.uk/~maven/m2repo</url>
   <releases>
     <enabled>true</enabled>
   </releases>
   <snapshots>
     <enabled>false</enabled>
   </snapshots>
 </repository>
}}}

*Note*: you need to change the version number to the latest version.

For developers, the latest source code is available from our [#Source_Code SVN repository].
 
[PRIDEXMLJAXB top of page]
----
== Using PRIDE XML JAXB ==
You can start using PRIDE XML JAXB once you have included it either on your classpath or your Maven pom file. The section below will show you how to retrieve spectra, identifications and peptides. 

====Starting Point====
The first step in using the PRIDE XML JAXB library is to create an instance of _PrideXmlReader_ object for a given PRIDE XML file, this object should provide all the methods you need to retrieve key information such as: spectra, identifications and peptides. 

Assuming the file your want to load is _pride-example.xml_, you can include the following lines in your code:
{{{
// Create an instance of PrideXmlReader
PrideXmlReader reader = new PrideXmlReader("pride-example.xml");
}}} 
*Note*: This step will start indexing the input PRIDE XML file automatically, the time it takes depends solely on the size of the input file.

====Getting Spectra====
You can start querying spectra data once you had your _PrideXmlReader_ initialized. In PRIDE XML JAXB library, spectra are referenced by their spectrum ids, which is unique for each spectrum within each input file.

If you want to iterate over all the spectra from the input file, you can use the following lines of code:
{{{
// Get a list of spectrum ids
List<String> ids = reader.getSpectrumIds();

// Iterate over each spectrum
for(String id : ids) {
  Spectrum spectrum = reader.getSpectrumById(id);
}
}}}
You can access information stored in a _Spectrum_ object just like you would access a normal Java object. For instance, you can include the following lines of code to get the meta data associated with SpectrumDesc. 
{{{
// Get spectrum meta data
SpectrumDesc spectrumDesc = spectrum.getSpectrumDesc();
}}} 
  
====Getting Identification====
====Getting Peptide====
====Getting Other Details====
====Advanced====

[PRIDEXMLJAXB top of page]
----
== API Reference ==
To come in the future.

[PRIDEXMLJAXB top of page]
----
== FAQs ==

[PRIDEXMLJAXB top of page]
----
== Getting Help ==

[PRIDEmzGraphBrowser top of page]
----
== Source Code ==

[PRIDEmzGraphBrowser top of page]