#summary a utility library for PRIDE Tool Suite.
#sidebar TableOfContents
 * [#About_PRIDE_Quality_Chart About PRIDE Quality Chart]
 * [#Getting_PRIDE_Quality_Chart Getting PRIDE Quality Chart]
 * [#Using_PRIDE_Quality_Chart Using PRIDE Quality Chart]
 * [#API_Reference API Reference]
 * [#FAQs FAQs]
 * [#Getting_Help Getting Help]
 * [#Source_Code Source Code]

== About PRIDE Quality Chart==

The purpose of PRIDE Quality Chart library is to provide a tool for creating a set of charts in order to assess the quality of your MS experiments.

Using this library, a number of quality charts can be generated which can allow quick quality checks on your dataset. Currently, the library provides eight different charts:
 # *Peak Intensity Distribution Chart*: A histogram of ion intensity vs frequency for all MS2 spectra in a single PRIDE experiment. 
 # *Precursor Ion Charge Distribution Chart*: Displays a bar chart of precursor ion charge for a single PRIDE experiment.
 # *MS2 m/z Distribution Chart*: Displays a frequency distribution of product ion m/z for different precursor ion charges. 
 # *Distribution of Precursor Ion Masses Chart*: Displays a frequency distribution of product ion m/z for different precursor ion charges.
 # *Number of Peptides Identified per Protein Chart*: Displays a bar chart with the number of peptides identified per protein for a single PRIDE experiment.
 # *Number of Peaks per Spectrum Chart*: Displays a histogram of number of peaks per MS/MS spectrum in a single PRIDE experiment. 
 # *Delta m/z Chart*: Displays a normalised frequency distribution of theoretical precursor ion mass - experimental precursor ion mass. 
 # *Number of Missed Tryptic Cleavages Chart*: . 

Note: the library is still evolving, we are committed to expand this library and add more useful charts. 

PRIDE Quality Chart library is currently used by one project:
 * [PRIDEInspector PRIDE Inspector]

This library is written in Java, brought to you by the PRIDE team. 

[PRIDEQualityChart top of page]
----
== Getting PRIDE Quality Chart==
The zip file in the [http://code.google.com/p/pride-toolsuite/downloads/list downloads section] contains the *PRIDE Quality Chart* jar file and all other required libraries.

===Maven Dependency===
*PRIDE Utilities* library can be used in Maven projects, you can include the following snippets in your Maven pom file. 
{{{
 <dependency>
   <groupId>uk.ac.ebi.pride.chart</groupId>
   <artifactId>pride-chart</artifactId>
   <version>0.0.20</version>
 </dependency> 
}}}

{{{
 <repository>
   <id>ebi-repo</id>
   <name>The EBI internal repository</name>
   <url>http://www.ebi.ac.uk/~maven/m2repo</url>
   <releases>
     <enabled>true</enabled>
   </releases>
   <snapshots>
     <enabled>false</enabled>
   </snapshots>
 </repository>
}}}

*Note*: you need to change the version number to the latest version.

For developers, the latest source code is available from our [#Source_Code SVN repository].

[PRIDEQualityChart top of page]
----
== Using PRIDE Quality Chart==
Here we will show you how to use the PRIDE Quality Chart library to create all the charts associated to a PRIDE Experimet Accession Number (stored in the public PRIDE-database), how to store the intermediate data and how to reuse it instead of calculated it again.

==== Creating all the charts associated to a PRIDE Experimet Accession Number ====
Note. If you've download the code from the SVN, make sure that you've configured correctly the database access. If you're using the project as a library, then the connection to the database is already configured.

You can find the class `PrideChartSummaryData` for calculating the experiment summary data in *uk.ac.ebi.pride.chart.controller* package. It requires one input parameter: 
 * `accessionNumber` is the PRIDE Experiment Accession Number in `String`. 

The following lines of code shows you how: 
{{{
//The PRIDE Experiment Accession Number we are interested in
String accessionNumber = "9759";

//The future list of PrideChart
List<PrideChart> listOfCharts;
try {
    //Using PrideChartSummaryData only with the accesion number STRING, it will use
    //the default configuration in your `settings.xml` file to access to de database
    ExperimentSummaryData summaryData = new PrideChartSummaryData(accessionNumber);
    listOfCharts = PrideChartFactory.getAllCharts(spectralSummaryData);
} catch (SpectralDataPerExperimentException e) {
    listOfCharts = new ArrayList<PrideChart>(); //An empty list
    //Treat the exception
}
//If everything was fine, here listOfCharts contains the available charts
}}}

The `PrideChartFactory` object can be found in the *uk.ac.ebi.pride.chart.graphics.implementation* package.

[PRIDEQualityChart top of page]
----
==== Store the intermediate data ====
In order to visualize the data in the future without having to wait for the summarization process done by `PrideChartSummaryData` object, the PRIDE Quality Chart library allows you to store an intermediate data in JSon format.

{{{
///Supose the `listOfCharts` object previously loaded
for(PrideChart prideChart : listOfCharts){
    //jsonData will contain the neccessary data to create the chart
    String jsonData = prideChart.getChartJsonData();
    //type will contain the identifier associated to the PrideChart Object
    int type = PrideChartFactory.getPrideChartIdentifier(prideChart);
    //Store the string associated to the type in a file in order to use it in the future
}
}}}

The `PrideChartFactory` object can be found in the *uk.ac.ebi.pride.chart.graphics.implementation* package.

[PRIDEQualityChart top of page]
----
==== Reuse the intermediate data ====
If you have the json data stored with the associated type (PrideChart Object identifier), in order to have your chart again, you only need the next code:

{{{
//Supose the data is in a variable `jsonData` (as String) and the type in `type` (as Integer)
PrideChart prideChart = PrideChartFactory.getChart(type, jsonData);
}}}

The `PrideChartFactory` object can be found in the *uk.ac.ebi.pride.chart.graphics.implementation* package.

[PRIDEQualityChart top of page]
----
== API Reference ==
To come in the future

[PRIDEQualityChart top of page]
----
== FAQs ==
To come in the future

[PRIDEQualityChart top of page]
----
== Getting Help ==
If you have questions or need additional help, please contact the PRIDE Helpdesk at the EBI: *pride-helpdesk at ebi.ac.uk (replace at with @)*.

Please send us your feedback, including error reports, improvement suggestions, new feature requests and any other things you might want to suggest to the PRIDE team.

[PRIDEQualityChart top of page]
----
== Source Code ==

[PRIDEQualityChart top of page]