#summary a utility library for PRIDE Tool Suite.
#sidebar TableOfContents
 * [#About_PRIDE_Utilities About PRIDE Utilities]
 * [#Getting_PRIDE_Utilities Getting PRIDE Utilities]
 * [#Using_PRIDE_Utilities Using PRIDE Utilities]
 * [#API_Reference API Reference]
 * [#FAQs FAQs]
 * [#Getting_Help Getting Help]
 * [#Source_Code Source Code]

== About PRIDE Utilities ==
The primary purpose of PRIDE Utilities library is to provide commonly used classes shared by all the PRIDE Tool Suite. You may also find it useful for your own computational proteomics projects.

The library provides four key modules:
 # *mol*: contains classes describing entities at the molecular level, such as: amino acids, neutrual losses, peptides and fragment ions. 
 # *gui*: contains several GUI components, you can use them if you want to replicate some of the features in PRIDE Inspector.
 # *data*: contains data structures classes are missing from JDK, such as: Tuple. 
 # *util*: contains a selection of conveninent classes. For examples: for formatting protein related informations, for checking Internet availability or for verfiy email addresses.

Note: the library is still evolving, we are committed to expand this library and add more useful classes. 

PRIDE Utilities library is currently used by three projects:
 * [PRIDEInspector PRIDE Inspector]
 * [PRIDEmzGraphBrowser PRIDE mzGraph Browser]
 * [PRIDEQualityChart PRIDE Quality Chart]

This library is written in Java, brought to you by the PRIDE team. 

[PRIDEUtilities top of page]
----
== Getting PRIDE Utilities ==
The zip file in the [http://code.google.com/p/pride-toolsuite/downloads/list downloads section] contains the *PRIDE Utilities* jar file and all other required libraries.

===Maven Dependency===
*PRIDE Utilities* library can be used in Maven projects, you can include the following snippets in your Maven pom file. 
{{{
 <dependency>
   <groupId>uk.ac.ebi.pride.util</groupId>
   <artifactId>pride-utilities</artifactId>
   <version>0.0.8</version>
 </dependency> 
}}}

{{{
 <repository>
   <id>ebi-repo</id>
   <name>The EBI internal repository</name>
   <url>http://www.ebi.ac.uk/~maven/m2repo</url>
   <releases>
     <enabled>true</enabled>
   </releases>
   <snapshots>
     <enabled>false</enabled>
   </snapshots>
 </repository>
}}}

*Note*: you need to change the version number to the latest version.

For developers, the latest source code is available from our [#Source_Code SVN repository].

[PRIDEUtilities top of page]
----
== Using PRIDE Utilities ==
Here we will show you how to use the PRIDE Utilitites library to calculate m/z delta and calculate theoretical mass of a given peptide. 

==== Calculate m/z Delta====
You can find the method for calculating m/z delta from `MoleculeUtilitites` in *uk.ac.ebi.pride.mol* package. It requires four input parameters: 
 * `sequence` is the peptide sequence in `String`,
 * `precursorMz` is the precusor m/z in `double`, 
 * `precursorCharge` is the precursor charge in double,
 * `ptmMasses` is a list of post translational modifications in `double`. 

The following lines of code shows you how: 
{{{
// Direct call on the method
Double mzDelta = MolecularUtilitites.calculateDeltaMz(sequence, precursorMz, precursorCharge, ptmMasses);
}}}

==== Calculate Theoretical Mass====
You can also find the method for calculating theoretical mass value from `MoleculeUtilitites`. It needs two input parameters:
 * `sequence` is the peptide sequence in `String`,
 * `masses` is a optional list array of masses you want to add as extras.

The following lines of code shows you how:
{{{
// Direct call on the method
double result = MolecularUtilitites.calculateTheoreticalMass(sequence, masses);
}}}

*Tip*: Take a close look at other methods within `MoleculeUtilitites`, you might find them useful.
 
[PRIDEUtilities top of page]
----

== API Reference ==
To come in the future

[PRIDEUtilities top of page]
----
== FAQs ==
To come in the future

[PRIDEUtilities top of page]
----
== Getting Help ==
If you have questions or need additional help, please contact the PRIDE Helpdesk at the EBI: *pride-support at ebi.ac.uk (replace at with @)*.

Please send us your feedback, including error reports, improvement suggestions, new feature requests and any other things you might want to suggest to the PRIDE team.

[PRIDEUtilities top of page]
----
== Source Code ==

[PRIDEUtilities top of page]