#summary Welcome to PRIDE Tool Suite. Written for proteomics community, by the PRIDE Team.
#sidebar TableOfContents

*PRIDE Tool Suite* comprises of a following tools and libraries:
 * [PRIDEInspector PRIDE Inspector]
 * [http://code.google.com/p/pride-converter/ PRIDE Converter]
 * [PRIDEmzGraphBrowser PRIDE mzGraph Browser]
 * [PRIDEQualityChart PRIDE Quality Chart]
 * [PRIDEXMLJAXB PRIDE XML JAXB]
 * [http://code.google.com/p/jmzml/ jmzML]
 * [PRIDEUtilities PRIDE Utilities]

----
== News ==
* February 12. 2013:_ [http://code.google.com/p/pride-toolsuite/downloads/list PRIDE Inspector Release Version 1.2.7] is now available:*
 * Integrated Peptidome dataset into PRIDE public instance.
 * A number of bug fixes relate to database search.

*_October 29. 2012:_ [http://code.google.com/p/pride-toolsuite/downloads/list PRIDE Inspector Release Version 1.2.6] is now available:*
 * A number of bug fixes relate to summary chart generation and database search.

*_September 18. 2012:_ [http://code.google.com/p/pride-toolsuite/downloads/list PRIDE Inspector Release Version 1.2.5] is now available:*
 * Support private download for ProteomeXchange submissions
 * New release of the PRIDE public database instance.
 * A number of bug fixes.

*_March 1. 2012:_ [http://code.google.com/p/pride-toolsuite/downloads/list PRIDE Inspector Release Version 1.2.4] is now available:*
 * Support precursor information at the peptide level.
 * Additional PTM summary column for database search panel.
 * Reactome pathway linkage from the quantification view. 
 * PRIDE Inspector paper reference added to the welcome screen.
 * A number of bug fixes.

*_October 26. 2011:_ [http://code.google.com/p/pride-toolsuite/downloads/list PRIDE Inspector Release Version 1.2.3] is now available:*
 * Problem on download protein details on Uniprot accessions, this was due to a change on Uniprot web service.
 * Bug fix on opening duplicated experiments from database.
 * Enabled Close All button when doing database search. 

*_October 26. 2011:_ [http://code.google.com/p/pride-toolsuite/downloads/list PRIDE Inspector Release Version 1.2.2] is now available:*
 * Bug fix on loading TMT quantification dataset.
 * Bug fix on setting control sample for quantification dataset.
 * Added new field to display search engine and database in the Overview tab.
 * Added a disclaimer on shared peptides problem in both the Protein tab and the Quantification Tab.
 * Bug fix on missing decimal point of delta m/z values.

*_October 17. 2011:_ [http://code.google.com/p/pride-toolsuite/downloads/list PRIDE Inspector Release Version 1.2.1] is now available:*
 * Bug fix for downloading PRIDE XML files through PRIDE web service.
 * Bug fix for inconsistent number of unique peptides. 

*_September 30. 2011:_ [http://code.google.com/p/pride-toolsuite/downloads/list PRIDE Inspector Release Version 1.2.0] is now available:*
 * This version is a major update.
 * New search and download feature for experiments in the PRIDE public database.
 * New quantification view to visualize quantification related data.
 * New protein details download option for getting protein name, protein sequence.
 * New component to visualize protein sequence and its peptide/PTM coverage.
 * New decoy filter on both protein and peptide identifications. 
 * New experiment summary on key measurements of experiment quality. 
 * Enhanced documentation.  
 * And a lot more!

*_July 1. 2011:_ [http://code.google.com/p/pride-toolsuite/downloads/list PRIDE Inspector Release Version 1.0.6] is now available:*
 * This version contains a number of bug fixes from the last version.

*_March 15. 2011:_ [http://code.google.com/p/pride-toolsuite/downloads/list PRIDE Inspector Release Version 1.0.4] is now available:*
 * This version is a major update, it contains a number of bug fixes from the last version (version 1.0.3). 

*_October 26. 2010:_ [http://code.google.com/p/pride-toolsuite/downloads/list PRIDE Inspector 0.7] is now available:*
 * Note: this is a beta release of PRIDE Inspector.
----